# Pilot_Program_2022
CCSF Pilot (Honor) Program2022
This is the first version 9/3/2022

To get the backgroud of this code, see Allocator Project Proposal.pdf in the repository

Note:
1) Exsiting code
    a) SumTool.py & AllocatorStatisticTool.py which were writen in 2020 at CCSF class CS131B perform below task:

        Copying Data Block 1 then coverting it to Data Report 

        Data Block 1:                       Data Report:
        a $100                              a 300.00
        b 200                               b 250.00
        c $100.00                           c 1100.00
        a $200
        b $100
        c $1,000.00
        c 
        b $
        b ($50)

    b) AllocatorStatisticTool.py(WILL ABANDONED) as the code to run the intface contain module tkinter for the previous program doesn't suitable for this project. So this file will be abandoned later. Keeping it here is just for testing the new code in a convenient way. But still some function in this file will be used. See below:
       1. getDatafromClipboard():
          """
          When users copy data from a spreadsheet, for example like Data Block 1, this fuction can get the whole block of character string from the Clipboard of the operation system
          """
       2. copyDatatoClipboard(result):
          """
          To send the character string in result to the Clipboard of the operation system
          """

    c) Functions prototype for SumTool.py:

       1. text2lines(result:str)->list:
          """ 
          To generate a list for the rows of above Data Block 1
          """

       2. trimDollarMark(str_amount:str)->str:
          """
          To convert:
          $3,000.00 -> 3000.00
          ($50) -> -50
          """

       3. lines2dict(lines:list)->dict:
          """
          To generate a dictionry as above Data Report from ths list of Data Block 1
          """




2) New Code
   a) AllocatingTool.py is new file for this project which contains the functions as below:

      1. BudgetCost_setting(filename:str):
         """
         Reading data from a CSV file (filename) then setting up a dictionary for the budget catergories. See more explaition the pages 7 to 9 at the proposal
         """

      2. ActualCost_setting(filename:str):
         """
         Reading data from a CSV file (filename) then setting up a dictionary for the actual cost catergories. See more explaition the pages 6 to 8 and 10 at the proposal
         """
      3. budgetReport_lines2list(lines):
         """
         As part of the budget input (see page 7 at the proposal), takes the lines and turns it into a list named list_budgets in the form of:
            [('Abatement', 0.0, 0.0, 0.0, '', 'Sub Abatement'),
            ('Rough Carpentry/Framing', 0, 0, 1700.0, 'H', 'Materials'),
            ('Rough Carpentry/Framing', 0, 0, 4200.0, 'H', 'Wage')...]
         Note for the member of the list: (Budget Name, Materials cost, wage cost, Materials cost+ wage cost , In house task/Not, Standard Catergory name)

         For the input, see Graph 2 at page 4 of the proposal. 
         """
      4. budgetReport_dict():
         """
         From the list generated by above function of budgetReport_lines2list(lines), this function creates the Budget Dictionary. See the explanation at page 7 for the budget report which is prepared for the Comparing Chart. 

         For the output, see Column A of Graph 3 at page 5 of the proposal. 
         """

      5. actualCostReport_lines2dict(lines):
         """
         For the actual cost data input and output (see page 6 at the proposal), this function will call the three functions at SumTool.py to prepare the actual cost report.

         For the input, see Graph 1 at page 3 of the proposal. For the output, see Column B of Graph 3 at page 5 of the proposal.
         """
      
      6. Comparing _report():
         """
         This function generate a comparison repost as Column C of Graph 3 at page 5 of the proposal is to be determined if in the file
         """  

    b) Allocator_Interface.py
      """
      THis file will implement the interface shown as Graph 4 at page 6 of the proposal
      """
      1. Calculation1():

      2. Calculation2():

      3. Calculation3():
